feat(#1828): create squad page (#1859)
medic/cht-docs: content/en/community/squads.md

--- 
title: "CHT Squads" 

> linkTitle: "Community"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
linkTitle: "Squads"
```

weight: 2 
description: > 

>   CHT Initiatives 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  How community squads work
```

---

>   **What is a Squad?**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What is a squad?
```

Reviewer: Let's use Markdown headers instead of bold content for consistency with the rest of the docs site.

> A CHT Squad is a small, action-oriented team that works together to solve high-priority challenges for the community. These teams bring together developers, designers, partners, and other contributors to build and implement important new features for the CHT ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A CHT Squad is a small, action-oriented team that works together to solve high-priority needs for the community. These teams bring together developers, designers, project managers, and other contributors to build and implement new features and improvements for the CHT.
```

> **How Squads Work:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How squads work
```

> - Collaborative by design: Anyone can join - whether you're an experienced developer or just getting started

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Collaborative by design: Anyone can join - whether you are an experienced community contributor or just getting started with the CHT
```

> - Transparent process: Regular meetings, shared notes, and public GitHub repositories keep everyone informed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Transparent process: Regular meetings and shared public notes and documentation to keep everyone informed
```

- Flexible contributions: Help in whatever way works for you - coding, design, testing, or documentation

> **Why Join a Squad?**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Why join a squad?
```

- Work on meaningful projects that make a real difference
- Learn from and collaborate with other community members
- Help shape the future of the CHT

> **The CHT Squad Journey**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What are the different stages in a squad?
```

Squads evolve through stages, and anyone can contribute—no matter their experience level. Here are the various stages:

> 1. **✨** Emerging

Reviewer: Please review the list of statuses to exactly match the [squad statuses in the roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/medic/projects/112/views/24).

> 1. **✨** Emerging

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. ✨ Emerging
```

> Squads evolve through stages, and anyone can contribute—no matter their experience level. Here are the various stages:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Squads evolve through stages, and anyone can start contributing at any stage - no matter their experience level. Here are the various stages:
```

> 1. Emerging

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. Emerging
```

An idea sparks! The community identifies a feature or improvement with broad potential.

      **Outputs**:

>       - ✅ Exploratory discussions

Reviewer: The ✅ emojis are repetitive and don't bring much value to the documentation. I suggest removing them altogether.

Reviewer: Oh, I think there was a misunderstanding with my message above, sorry for that. I loved the different emojis on the statuses. I find the  ✅ repetitive. Can you please remove these ones and add back the different emojis? Thank you @Phil-Mwago

Author: Ok, sure.

      - ✅ Partners and contributors aligned
      - ✅ The [Code of Conduct](https://docs.communityhealthtoolkit.org/community/contributing/code-of-conduct/) is shared with all squad members

> 2. **🧑🏼‍🎨** Early Design

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. 🧑🏼‍🎨 Early Design
```

> 2. Early Design Discussion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 2. Early Design Discussion
```

Feasibility meets vision. Teams explore technical requirements, timelines, and design approaches.

      **Outputs**:
      - ✅ Wireframes or prototypes
      - ✅ Resource commitments
      - ✅ Preliminary scope and timeline

> 3. Requirements & Design

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 3. Requirements & Design
```

> Turning ideas into action. Clear specs and mockups are finalized for development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Turning ideas into action. Clear specs and mockups are finalized for development, as well as technical design.
```

      **Outputs**:
      - ✅ Documented requirements
      - ✅ Approved design doc

> 4. Development/Building:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 4. Development/Building
```

building the solution. 

> Developers implement features based on agreed designs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Feature implementation based on agreed-upon designs.
```

      **Output**:
      - ✅ Working software (GitHub pull requests)

> 5. Testing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 5. Testing
```

Ensuring quality. Rigorous manual/automated testing verifies functionality.

      **Outputs**:
      - ✅ Test reports
      - ✅ Verified software

> 6. Release

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 6. Release
```

> Impact in the real world. Features are deployed to real-world users and later merged into core CHT releases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The functionality is released and ready to create an impact in the real world. Features can be deployed to users.
```

Reviewer: Ensuring that we don't mix up merged, released and deployed, and they are different things.

      **Output**:
      - ✅ Live deployment!

> 7. Done

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 7.  Done
```

> Mission accomplished. The project meets all goals and is marked complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mission accomplished. The project meets all goals and the related tasks are marked complete.
```

> **When can you join a squad?**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## When can you join a squad?
```

> See the active squads on our [roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/medic/projects/112/views/24) and subscribe to the [CHT calendar](https://docs.communityhealthtoolkit.org/community/events/) to see all the CHT events including the squads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the active squads on the [CHT roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/medic/projects/112/views/24) and subscribe to the [CHT calendar](https://docs.communityhealthtoolkit.org/community/events/) to stay up to date with all the CHT events, including the regular squad meetings.
```

--- 
title: "CHT Squads" 
linkTitle: "Squads"
weight: 2 
description: > 
  How community squads work
---

## What is a squad?

A CHT Squad is a small, action-oriented team that works together to solve high-priority needs for the community. These teams bring together developers, designers, project managers, and other contributors to build and implement new features and improvements for the CHT.

## How squads work
When a community-proposed improvement shows potential for broad impact, we invite the wider community to collaborate. Members can express interest in contributing to discussions, design, development, testing and/or funding. Below are the steps how a squad works:
- Collaborative by design: Anyone can join - whether you are an experienced community contributor or just getting started with the CHT
- Transparent process: Regular meetings and shared public notes and documentation to keep everyone informed
- Flexible contributions: Help in whatever way works for you - coding, design, testing, or documentation

> ## Starting a Squad: Key Requirements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Starting a squad: key requirements
```

Reviewer: For consistency with the rest of the titles

  **Outputs**:
  - Exploratory discussions
  - Partners and contributors aligned
  - The [Code of Conduct](https://docs.communityhealthtoolkit.org/community/contributing/code-of-conduct/) is shared with all squad members

### 2. 🧑🏼‍🎨 Early Design Discussion
Feasibility meets vision. Teams explore technical requirements, timelines, and design approaches.

  **Outputs**:
  - Wireframes or prototypes
  - Resource commitments
  - Preliminary scope and timeline

### 3.  Requirements & Design
Turning ideas into action. Clear specs and mockups are finalized for development, as well as technical design.

  **Outputs**:
  - Documented requirements
  - Approved design doc

### 4. 🧑🏽‍💻 Development/Building
building the solution. 
Feature implementation based on agreed-upon designs.

  **Output**:
  - Working software (GitHub pull requests)

### 5. 📲 Testing
Ensuring quality. Rigorous manual/automated testing verifies functionality.

  **Outputs**:
  - Test reports
  - Verified software

### 6. 💪🏼 Release
The functionality is released and ready to create an impact in the real world. Features can be deployed to users.

  **Output**:

>   - Live deployment!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Software release
```
